content/docs/en/guides/plugin/build-and-test.mdx, before:

---
title: "Build and Test Your Mod"
description: "Learn how to build your Hytale mod and test it in-game."
authors:
    - name: "Michael B"
---

If you followed along with the [Setting Up Your Development Environment](./setting-up-env) page, you should now be able to build your project.

## Building Your Mod

In our case, we've **Maven** as the build system. Maven is a powerful build automation tool that manages dependencies, compiles your code, and packages everything into a distributable JAR file.

### Understanding Maven

Maven uses a `pom.xml` file (Project Object Model) to define your project's configuration, dependencies, and build settings. You can learn more about Maven at the [official Apache Maven website](https://maven.apache.org/).

### Building with Maven

To build your mod, open a terminal in your project directory and run:

```bash
mvn package
```

This command will:
1. Compile your Java source code
2. Run any tests (if present)
3. Package everything into a JAR file

### Build Output

Once the build completes successfully, your mod will be located in the `target` directory and named:

```
ExamplePlugin-1.0-SNAPSHOT.jar
```

<Callout type="info">
The exact name may vary depending on what you configured in your `pom.xml` file. Check the `artifactId` and `version` fields to see what your JAR will be named.
</Callout>

## Testing Your Mod

Now that you've built your mod, it's time to test it in Hytale!

### 1. Locate the Mods Folder

First, you need to find Hytale's mods directory:

1. Press **Win + R** on your keyboard
2. Type `%appdata%` and press Enter
3. Navigate to: `Hytale\UserData\Mods`

The full path should look like:
```
C:\Users\YourUsername\AppData\Roaming\Hytale\UserData\Mods
```

<Callout type="warning">
If the `Mods` folder doesn't exist, you may need to create it manually or launch Hytale at least once.
</Callout>

### 2. Copy Your Mod

Copy the `ExamplePlugin-1.0-SNAPSHOT.jar` file from your project's `target` directory into the `Mods` folder you just located.

### 3. Launch Hytale and Verify

1. **Start Hytale**
2. **Click "Create a New World"**
3. **Click the settings cog**
4. **Click "Mods"**
5. **See your mod** in the list!

If your mod appears in the list, congratulations! Your mod has been successfully loaded by Hytale.

## Troubleshooting

If your mod doesn't appear in the mods list:

- Make sure the JAR file is in the correct `Mods` folder
- Check that your `manifest.json` file is properly configured
- Look for any error messages in the Hytale logs
- Verify that you're using the correct version of Java and Maven

## Next Steps

Now that you can build and test your mod, you're ready to start adding functionality! Check out these guides:

- [Create Commands](./creating-commands) - Add custom commands to your mod
- [Create Events](./creating-events) - React to in-game events

Happy modding!

Commit message:

refactor: update guide order, refactor and fix indentation (#310)
* fix: fix tab indentation

* refactor: change guide order and move ecs guide over to the rest of guide

* refactor: adjust wording and provide further clarification on ECS, fix links to ecs guide

* refactor: remove useless info from ECS systems guide

* refactor: add warning in env setup and building

content/docs/en/guides/plugin/build-and-test.mdx, after:

---
title: "Build and Test Your Mod"
description: "Learn how to build your Hytale mod and test it in-game."
authors:
    - name: "Michael B"
---

<Callout type="warning">
This guide is outdated and will be updated soon. Whilst this guide is still accurate, there are now better alternatives for building your mod.
</Callout>

If you followed along with the [Setting Up Your Development Environment](./setting-up-env) page, you should now be able to build your project.

## Building Your Mod

In our case, we've **Maven** as the build system. Maven is a powerful build automation tool that manages dependencies, compiles your code, and packages everything into a distributable JAR file.

### Understanding Maven

Maven uses a `pom.xml` file (Project Object Model) to define your project's configuration, dependencies, and build settings. You can learn more about Maven at the [official Apache Maven website](https://maven.apache.org/).

### Building with Maven

To build your mod, open a terminal in your project directory and run:

```bash
mvn package
```

This command will:
1. Compile your Java source code
2. Run any tests (if present)
3. Package everything into a JAR file

### Build Output

Once the build completes successfully, your mod will be located in the `target` directory and named:

```
ExamplePlugin-1.0-SNAPSHOT.jar
```

<Callout type="info">
The exact name may vary depending on what you configured in your `pom.xml` file. Check the `artifactId` and `version` fields to see what your JAR will be named.
</Callout>

## Testing Your Mod

Now that you've built your mod, it's time to test it in Hytale!

### 1. Locate the Mods Folder

First, you need to find Hytale's mods directory:

1. Press **Win + R** on your keyboard
2. Type `%appdata%` and press Enter
3. Navigate to: `Hytale\UserData\Mods`

The full path should look like:
```
C:\Users\YourUsername\AppData\Roaming\Hytale\UserData\Mods
```

<Callout type="warning">
If the `Mods` folder doesn't exist, you may need to create it manually or launch Hytale at least once.
</Callout>

### 2. Copy Your Mod

Copy the `ExamplePlugin-1.0-SNAPSHOT.jar` file from your project's `target` directory into the `Mods` folder you just located.

### 3. Launch Hytale and Verify

1. **Start Hytale**
2. **Click "Create a New World"**
3. **Click the settings cog**
4. **Click "Mods"**
5. **See your mod** in the list!

If your mod appears in the list, congratulations! Your mod has been successfully loaded by Hytale.

## Troubleshooting

If your mod doesn't appear in the mods list:

- Make sure the JAR file is in the correct `Mods` folder
- Check that your `manifest.json` file is properly configured
- Look for any error messages in the Hytale logs
- Verify that you're using the correct version of Java and Maven

## Next Steps

Now that you can build and test your mod, you're ready to start adding functionality! Check out these guides:

- [Create Commands](./creating-commands) - Add custom commands to your mod
- [Create Events](./creating-events) - React to in-game events

Happy modding!
