content/docs/en/guides/plugin/permission-management.mdx, before:

---
title: "Permission Management"
description: "Learn how to manage permission nodes and groups in your Hytale plugin."
authors:
    - name: "Neil Revin"
      link: "https://itsneil.dev"
    - name: "Bird"
      link: "https://discord.com/users/495709580068651009"
    - name: "Craw"
      link: "https://discord.com/users/292656109939064833"
---

In this guide, you'll learn how to manage permission nodes and groups in your Hytale plugin.

## The `PermissionsModule` class

The `PermissionsModule` class is responsible for managing permission nodes and groups in your plugin. It provides methods to check, grant and revoke permissions and groups for players. It allows the following operations
- Add permissions to user
- Remove permissions from user
- Add permissions to group (this also creates the group if it doesn't exist)
- Remove permissions from group
- Add user to group
- Remove user from group
- List all groups for a user
- Check if a user has a permission (it checks both user and group permissions for the given player UUID)

With this class you cannot:
- List all defined groups
- Remove a group 

### Adding Permission Nodes

You need a `Set<String>` containing all the permission nodes you want to add, these are added on top of the already existing permission nodes the user may have, it is not a replacement.

```java
Set<String> permissions = new HashSet<>();
PermissionsModule perms = PermissionsModule.get();
perms.addUserPermission(playerUUID, permissions);
```

### Removing Permission Nodes

Same as above, we just use the `removeUserPermission` method instead to remove permission nodes.

```java
Set<String> permissions = new HashSet<>();
PermissionsModule perms = PermissionsModule.get();
perms.removeUserPermission(playerUUID, permissions);
```

### Add permissions to group
```java
String groupName = "testGroup";
Set<String> permissions = new HashSet<>();
PermissionsModule perms = PermissionsModule.get();
perms.addGroupPermission(groupName, permissions);
```

### Remove permissions from group
```java
String groupName = "testGroup";
Set<String> permissions = new HashSet<>();
PermissionsModule perms = PermissionsModule.get();
perms.removeGroupPermission(groupName, permissions);
```

### Add user to group
```java
String groupName = "testGroup";
Set<String> permissions = new HashSet<>();
PermissionsModule perms = PermissionsModule.get();
perms.addUserToGroup(playerUUID, groupName);
```

### Remove user from group
```java
String groupName = "testGroup";
Set<String> permissions = new HashSet<>();
PermissionsModule perms = PermissionsModule.get();
perms.removeUserFromGroup(playerUUID, groupName);
```

### List all groups for a user
```java
PermissionsModule perms = PermissionsModule.get();
perms.getGroupsForUser(playerUUID);
```

### Check Permission Nodes

To check if a player has a specific permission node, you can use the `hasPermission` method.

```java
boolean hasPermission = PermissionsModule.hasPermission(playerUUID, "permission.node");
```

### Additional: Defining your own storage provider for permissions and groups

Apparently we could implement our own storage provider for permissions and groups as file storage is not very reliable. 

First we need to define a provider class that implements PermissionProvider: 

```java
public class DatabasePermissionProvider implements PermissionProvider
```
Then we just implement the required methods using a database implementation. To force our plugin to use this new provider we just need to add to the provider list our fresh DatabasePermissionProvider.
```java
perms.getProviders().addFirst(new DatabasePermissionProvider());
```

Commit message:

fix: bad code example and rewrite the creating PermissionProvider section (#374)
* fix: fix #372 and rewrite the creating PermissionProvider section

* chore: add self to permission-management.mdx authors section

* fix: accidentally put Survival instead of Adventure 🤦🏻‍♂️

content/docs/en/guides/plugin/permission-management.mdx, after:

---
title: "Permission Management"
description: "Learn how to manage permission nodes and groups in your Hytale plugin."
authors:
    - name: "Neil Revin"
      link: "https://itsneil.dev"
    - name: "Bird"
      link: "https://discord.com/users/495709580068651009"
    - name: "Craw"
      link: "https://discord.com/users/292656109939064833"
    - name: "Ivan"
      link: "https://discord.com/users/505770451218333717"
---

In this guide, you'll learn how to manage permission nodes and groups in your Hytale plugin.

## The `PermissionsModule` class

The `PermissionsModule` class is responsible for managing permission nodes and groups in your plugin. It provides methods to check, grant and revoke permissions and groups for players. It allows the following operations
- Add permissions to user
- Remove permissions from user
- Add permissions to group (this also creates the group if it doesn't exist)
- Remove permissions from group
- Add user to group
- Remove user from group
- List all groups for a user
- Check if a user has a permission (it checks both user and group permissions for the given player UUID)

With this class you cannot:
- List all defined groups
- Remove a group 

### Adding Permission Nodes

You need a `Set<String>` containing all the permission nodes you want to add, these are added on top of the already existing permission nodes the user may have, it is not a replacement.

```java
Set<String> permissions = new HashSet<>();
PermissionsModule perms = PermissionsModule.get();
perms.addUserPermission(playerUUID, permissions);
```

### Removing Permission Nodes

Same as above, we just use the `removeUserPermission` method instead to remove permission nodes.

```java
Set<String> permissions = new HashSet<>();
PermissionsModule perms = PermissionsModule.get();
perms.removeUserPermission(playerUUID, permissions);
```

### Add permissions to group
```java
String groupName = "testGroup";
Set<String> permissions = new HashSet<>();
PermissionsModule perms = PermissionsModule.get();
perms.addGroupPermission(groupName, permissions);
```

### Remove permissions from group
```java
String groupName = "testGroup";
Set<String> permissions = new HashSet<>();
PermissionsModule perms = PermissionsModule.get();
perms.removeGroupPermission(groupName, permissions);
```

### Add user to group
```java
String groupName = "testGroup";
Set<String> permissions = new HashSet<>();
PermissionsModule perms = PermissionsModule.get();
perms.addUserToGroup(playerUUID, groupName);
```

### Remove user from group
```java
String groupName = "testGroup";
Set<String> permissions = new HashSet<>();
PermissionsModule perms = PermissionsModule.get();
perms.removeUserFromGroup(playerUUID, groupName);
```

### List all groups for a user
```java
PermissionsModule perms = PermissionsModule.get();
perms.getGroupsForUser(playerUUID);
```

### Check Permission Nodes

To check if a player has a specific permission node, you can use the `hasPermission` method.

```java
boolean hasPermission = PermissionsModule.hasPermission(playerUUID, "permission.node");
```

## Additional: Defining your own provider for permissions and groups

The PermissionsModule also enables us to define our own PermissionProvider's, this can be useful for:
- Cross server permission systems
- Implementing features missing in the `HytalePermissionsProvider` like permission expiry

To implement our PermissionProvider, first we need to define a provider class that implements PermissionProvider: 

```java
public class DatabasePermissionProvider implements PermissionProvider
```

Then we just implement the required methods using a database implementation.
<Callout type="warning">
  Hytale will try to use the first available permissions provider to add/remove gamemode groups (i.e. `Creative`, `Adventure`).

  If your provider throws an error (for instance, if the group does not exist) when the server is preparing the player, the player will be disconnected.
</Callout>

We can then register the provider using the built-in permission module:
```java
PermissionsModule.get().addProvider(new DatabasePermissionProvider());
```

Please note that the `HytalePermissionsProvider` will still be enabled alongside your provider.
The `PermissionsModule` will aggregate groups and permissions from all available providers.

If you want to disable the default `HytalePermissionsProvider`, you can use:
```java
// put this **before** you add your provider
PermissionsModule.get().removeProvider(PermissionsModule.get().getFirstPermissionProvider());
```
