content/docs/en/guides/plugin/setting-up-env.mdx, before:

---
title: "Setting Up Your Development Environment"
description: "Learn how to set up your development environment for modding Hytale."
authors:
    - name: "Neil Revin"
      link: "https://itsneil.dev"
---

This guide will walk you through setting up a complete development environment for Hytale modding, including all necessary tools and dependencies.

## Prerequisites

Before we begin, make sure you have:
- A computer running Windows 10/11, macOS, or Linux
- At least 8GB of RAM
- 10GB of free disk space
- Administrative privileges on your system

## Required Software

### 1. Java Development Kit (JDK)

Hytale modding requires Java 25 or later. We recommend using OpenJDK.

#### Windows
1. Download OpenJDK 25 from [Adoptium](https://adoptium.net/)
2. Run the installer with default settings
3. Verify installation by opening Command Prompt and running:
```bash
java -version
```

#### macOS
```bash
# Using Homebrew
brew install openjdk@25
```

<Callout type="info">
If `java --version` shows "Unable to locate a Java Runtime", add OpenJDK to your PATH:
```bash
echo 'export PATH="$(brew --prefix)/opt/openjdk@25/bin:$PATH"' >> ~/.zshrc
source ~/.zshrc
```
</Callout>

#### Linux (Ubuntu/Debian)
```bash
sudo apt update
sudo apt install openjdk-25-jdk
```

### 2. Integrated Development Environment (IDE)

We recommend IntelliJ IDEA Community Edition for Hytale modding.

1. Download from [JetBrains website](https://www.jetbrains.com/idea/download/)
2. Install with default settings
3. Launch and complete the initial setup wizard

### 3. Maven

1. Visit the official website: https://maven.apache.org/download.cgi
2. Download this file: `apache-maven-3.9.12-bin.zip` (Binary zip archive)
3. Unzip it
4. Add the `apache-maven-3.9.12/bin/` folder to your PATH

You can now try the command `mvn -version` to verify Maven is installed correctly. Make sure to do this in a fresh new terminal instead of one you had opened from before!

## Setting Up Your Workspace

### 1. Clone the Plugin Template

Instead of creating an empty directory, we'll use the official Hytale plugin template:

```bash
# Clone the template repository
git clone https://github.com/HytaleModding/plugin-template.git MyFirstMod
cd MyFirstMod
```

### 2. Open in IntelliJ IDEA

1. Open IntelliJ IDEA
2. Click "Open" and navigate to your `MyFirstMod` directory
3. IntelliJ will automatically detect it as a Maven project
4. Wait for the project to index and dependencies to download

### 3. Add HytaleServer.jar Dependency

Before you can start modding, you need to add the HytaleServer.jar file as a dependency:

1. **Download HytaleServer.jar** using the [Hytale Downloader](https://support.hytale.com/hc/en-us/articles/45326769420827-Hytale-Server-Manual)
2. **Add to IntelliJ IDEA**:
   - Click on **"File"** at the top left
   - Go to **"Project Structure"**
   - Go to **"Libraries"**
   - Click on the **+ icon**
   - Select the **HytaleServer.jar** you downloaded

### 4. Add the HytaleServer to your Artifacts

<Callout type="warning">
This is a temporary workaround until Hypixel provides an official Maven repository for HytaleServer.jar
</Callout>

Run this command in your console

```bash
mvn install:install-file -Dfile=[ROUTE TO HytaleServer.jar] -DgroupId=com.hypixel.hytale -DartifactId=HytaleServer-parent -Dversion=1.0-SNAPSHOT -Dpackaging=jar
```

Replace `[ROUTE TO HytaleServer.jar]` with the actual path to the `HytaleServer.jar` file on your system.

<Callout type="warning">
If you are using Powershell you may stumble accross the following error:
```
[INFO] --------------------------------[ jar ]---------------------------------
[INFO] ------------------------------------------------------------------------
[INFO] BUILD FAILURE
[INFO] ------------------------------------------------------------------------
[INFO] Total time:  0.192 s
[INFO] Finished at: ***************
[INFO] ------------------------------------------------------------------------
[ERROR] Unknown lifecycle phase ".hypixel.hytale". You must specify a valid lifecycle phase or a goal in the format <plugin-prefix>:<goal> or <plugin-group-id>:<plugin-artifact-id>[:<plugin-version>]:<goal>. Available lifecycle phases are: pre-clean, clean, post-clean, validate, initialize, generate-sources, process-sources, generate-resources, process-resources, compile, process-classes, generate-test-sources, process-test-sources, generate-test-resources, process-test-resources, test-compile, process-test-classes, test, prepare-package, package, pre-integration-test, integration-test, post-integration-test, verify, install, deploy, pre-site, site, post-site, site-deploy. -> [Help 1]
[ERROR]
[ERROR] To see the full stack trace of the errors, re-run Maven with the -e switch.
[ERROR] Re-run Maven using the -X switch to enable full debug logging.
[ERROR]
[ERROR] For more information about the errors and possible solutions, please read the following articles:
[ERROR] [Help 1] http://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/MAVEN/LifecyclePhaseNotFoundException
```

This has something to do with how powershell struggles with the parameters when they are not wrapped inside strings. To solve this issue just wrap every parameter with `"`.

```bash
mvn install:install-file -Dfile="[ROUTE TO HytaleServer.jar]" -DgroupId="com.hypixel.hytale" -DartifactId="HytaleServer-parent" -Dversion="1.0-SNAPSHOT" -Dpackaging="jar"
```
</Callout>

## Next Steps

Now that you have your development environment set up with the plugin template:

1. **Customize the template** - Edit the `pom.xml` and `manifest.json` file to change your mod's name and details
2. **Explore the code structure** - Familiarize yourself with the template's organization
3. **Start modding** - Begin writing your first Hytale plugin!

Learn how to:
   - [Build and Test Your Mod](./build-and-test)
   - [Create Commands](./creating-commands)
   - [Create Events](./creating-events)

and more! Explore the documentation to learn about all available features and best practices.

Commit message:

refactor: update guide order, refactor and fix indentation (#310)
* fix: fix tab indentation

* refactor: change guide order and move ecs guide over to the rest of guide

* refactor: adjust wording and provide further clarification on ECS, fix links to ecs guide

* refactor: remove useless info from ECS systems guide

* refactor: add warning in env setup and building

content/docs/en/guides/plugin/setting-up-env.mdx, after:

---
title: "Setting Up Your Development Environment"
description: "Learn how to set up your development environment for modding Hytale."
authors:
    - name: "Neil Revin"
      link: "https://itsneil.dev"
---

<Callout type="warning">
This guide is outdated and will be updated soon. Whilst this guide is still accurate, there are now better alternatives for setting up your environment.
</Callout>


This guide will walk you through setting up a complete development environment for Hytale modding, including all necessary tools and dependencies.

## Prerequisites

Before we begin, make sure you have:
- A computer running Windows 10/11, macOS, or Linux
- At least 8GB of RAM
- 10GB of free disk space
- Administrative privileges on your system

## Required Software

### 1. Java Development Kit (JDK)

Hytale modding requires Java 25 or later. We recommend using OpenJDK.

#### Windows
1. Download OpenJDK 25 from [Adoptium](https://adoptium.net/)
2. Run the installer with default settings
3. Verify installation by opening Command Prompt and running:
```bash
java -version
```

#### macOS
```bash
# Using Homebrew
brew install openjdk@25
```

<Callout type="info">
If `java --version` shows "Unable to locate a Java Runtime", add OpenJDK to your PATH:
```bash
echo 'export PATH="$(brew --prefix)/opt/openjdk@25/bin:$PATH"' >> ~/.zshrc
source ~/.zshrc
```
</Callout>

#### Linux (Ubuntu/Debian)
```bash
sudo apt update
sudo apt install openjdk-25-jdk
```

### 2. Integrated Development Environment (IDE)

We recommend IntelliJ IDEA Community Edition for Hytale modding.

1. Download from [JetBrains website](https://www.jetbrains.com/idea/download/)
2. Install with default settings
3. Launch and complete the initial setup wizard

### 3. Maven

1. Visit the official website: https://maven.apache.org/download.cgi
2. Download this file: `apache-maven-3.9.12-bin.zip` (Binary zip archive)
3. Unzip it
4. Add the `apache-maven-3.9.12/bin/` folder to your PATH

You can now try the command `mvn -version` to verify Maven is installed correctly. Make sure to do this in a fresh new terminal instead of one you had opened from before!

## Setting Up Your Workspace

### 1. Clone the Plugin Template

Instead of creating an empty directory, we'll use the official Hytale plugin template:

```bash
# Clone the template repository
git clone https://github.com/HytaleModding/plugin-template.git MyFirstMod
cd MyFirstMod
```

### 2. Open in IntelliJ IDEA

1. Open IntelliJ IDEA
2. Click "Open" and navigate to your `MyFirstMod` directory
3. IntelliJ will automatically detect it as a Maven project
4. Wait for the project to index and dependencies to download

### 3. Add HytaleServer.jar Dependency

Before you can start modding, you need to add the HytaleServer.jar file as a dependency:

1. **Download HytaleServer.jar** using the [Hytale Downloader](https://support.hytale.com/hc/en-us/articles/45326769420827-Hytale-Server-Manual)
2. **Add to IntelliJ IDEA**:
   - Click on **"File"** at the top left
   - Go to **"Project Structure"**
   - Go to **"Libraries"**
   - Click on the **+ icon**
   - Select the **HytaleServer.jar** you downloaded

### 4. Add the HytaleServer to your Artifacts

<Callout type="warning">
This is a temporary workaround until Hypixel provides an official Maven repository for HytaleServer.jar
</Callout>

Run this command in your console

```bash
mvn install:install-file -Dfile=[ROUTE TO HytaleServer.jar] -DgroupId=com.hypixel.hytale -DartifactId=HytaleServer-parent -Dversion=1.0-SNAPSHOT -Dpackaging=jar
```

Replace `[ROUTE TO HytaleServer.jar]` with the actual path to the `HytaleServer.jar` file on your system.

<Callout type="warning">
If you are using Powershell you may stumble accross the following error:
```
[INFO] --------------------------------[ jar ]---------------------------------
[INFO] ------------------------------------------------------------------------
[INFO] BUILD FAILURE
[INFO] ------------------------------------------------------------------------
[INFO] Total time:  0.192 s
[INFO] Finished at: ***************
[INFO] ------------------------------------------------------------------------
[ERROR] Unknown lifecycle phase ".hypixel.hytale". You must specify a valid lifecycle phase or a goal in the format <plugin-prefix>:<goal> or <plugin-group-id>:<plugin-artifact-id>[:<plugin-version>]:<goal>. Available lifecycle phases are: pre-clean, clean, post-clean, validate, initialize, generate-sources, process-sources, generate-resources, process-resources, compile, process-classes, generate-test-sources, process-test-sources, generate-test-resources, process-test-resources, test-compile, process-test-classes, test, prepare-package, package, pre-integration-test, integration-test, post-integration-test, verify, install, deploy, pre-site, site, post-site, site-deploy. -> [Help 1]
[ERROR]
[ERROR] To see the full stack trace of the errors, re-run Maven with the -e switch.
[ERROR] Re-run Maven using the -X switch to enable full debug logging.
[ERROR]
[ERROR] For more information about the errors and possible solutions, please read the following articles:
[ERROR] [Help 1] http://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/MAVEN/LifecyclePhaseNotFoundException
```

This has something to do with how powershell struggles with the parameters when they are not wrapped inside strings. To solve this issue just wrap every parameter with `"`.

```bash
mvn install:install-file -Dfile="[ROUTE TO HytaleServer.jar]" -DgroupId="com.hypixel.hytale" -DartifactId="HytaleServer-parent" -Dversion="1.0-SNAPSHOT" -Dpackaging="jar"
```
</Callout>

## Next Steps

Now that you have your development environment set up with the plugin template:

1. **Customize the template** - Edit the `pom.xml` and `manifest.json` file to change your mod's name and details
2. **Explore the code structure** - Familiarize yourself with the template's organization
3. **Start modding** - Begin writing your first Hytale plugin!

Learn how to:
   - [Build and Test Your Mod](./build-and-test)
   - [Create Commands](./creating-commands)
   - [Create Events](./creating-events)

and more! Explore the documentation to learn about all available features and best practices.
