content/docs/en/guides/plugin/store-persistant-data.mdx, before:

---
title: "Storing Persistant Data on the Player"
description: "Learn how to save and load persistant data using Components"
authors:
    - name: "ArcticDev"
      url: "https://github.com/ArcticRaven"
    - name: "Neil Revin"
      url: "https://itsneil.dev/"
---

Here is how to store persistent data using a custom component on a Player.

## Build your Component Class

Creating a custom component class leverages the Component system made with the ECS architecture in mind. For more information on Components, check out the [ECS Guide](../ecs/hytale-ecs-theory#components).

Start by creating your custom component class. This will be extremely similar to how regular components are created, however we'll setup a custom Codec so the server can translate this data to BSON, or the server's internal json encoder.

<Callout type="info">
Each variable you want to store in your component must have its own Codec field defined in the BuilderCodec.
Since the codec system is lambda based, you provide a setter and getter for each field.

Using complex data types (like Lists, Maps, etc) is possible, but can get tricky.
Refer to the available Codec types in the `Server.jar/com/hypixel/hytale/codec/` package for more information on what types are available.

Note that the 'key' used in the KeyedCodec must start with a Capital Letter, otherwise it may not serialize properly.
</Callout>

```java
public class YourPlayerData implements Component<EntityStore> {

    // define some vars!
    private int someInteger;
    private String someString;
    private Map<String, String> someMap;

    public static final BuilderCodec<YourPlayerData> CODEC =
            BuilderCodec.builder(YourPlayerData.class, YourPlayerData::new)
            .addField(new KeyedCodec<>("SomeInteger", Codec.INTEGER),
                    (data, value) -> data.someInteger = value, // setter
                    data -> data.someInteger) // getter
            .addField(new KeyedCodec<>("SomeString", Codec.STRING),
                    (data, value) -> data.someString = value, // setter
                    data -> data.someString) // getter
            .addField(new KeyedCodec<>("SomeMap",
                            new MapCodec<>(Codec.STRING, HashMap::new, false)),
                    (data, value) -> data.someMap = value, // setter
                    data -> data.someMap) // getter
            .build();



    // Getters and Setters are for the purpose of this example omitted.

    // constructor
    public YourPlayerData() {
        this.someInteger = 0;
        this.someString = "";
        this.someMap = new HashMap<>();
    }

    // copy constructor for cloning
    public YourPlayerData(YourPlayerData clone) {
        this.someInteger = clone.someInteger;
        this.someString = clone.someString;
        this.someMap = clone.someMap;
    }

    @NullableDecl
    @Override
    public Component<EntityStore> clone() {
        return new YourPlayerData(this);
    }
}
```

## Register your Component
Inside your main class's `setup()` method, register your new Component.

```java
public class YourPlugin extends JavaPlugin {

    private ComponentType<EntityStore, YourPlayerData> yourPlayerDataComponent;

    public YourPlugin(@NonNullDecl JavaPluginInit init) {
        super(init);
    }

    @Override
    protected void setup(){
        this.yourPlayerDataComponent = this.getEntityStoreRegistry().registerComponent(
            YourPlayerData.class,
            "YourPlayerDataComponent",
            YourPlayerData.CODEC
        );
    }

    public ComponentType<EntityStore, YourPlayerData> getYourPlayerDataComponent() {
        return this.yourPlayerDataComponent;
    }
}
```

## Using your Data

Your component will be stored within the `Store<EntityStore>` when added to the player. In the provided example,
we'll fetch this data off the player using the `ensureAndGetComponent()` method, which will add the component to
the player if it does not exist.

```java
public class IncompleteCustomCommand extends AbstractPlayerCommand {

    public IncompleteCustomCommand() {
        super("nope", "don't use this command");
    }

    @Override
    protected void execute(
        @NonNullDecl CommandContext commandContext,
        @NonNullDecl Store<EntityStore> store,
        @NonNullDecl Ref<EntityStore> ref,
        @NonNullDecl PlayerRef playerRef,
        @NonNullDecl World world
    ) {
        YourPlayerData customData = store.ensureAndGetComponent(ref, YourPlugin.instance().getYourPlayerDataComponent());

 		// use your data
    }
}
```

And that's it! Your data will now be saved and loaded automatically with the player.

## Conclusion
Using custom components to store persistent data on players is a powerful way to maintain state across sessions. By following the steps outlined above, you can easily create, register, and utilize your own data structures within the Hytale modding framework. This approach ensures that your data is seamlessly integrated with the game's existing systems, providing a robust solution for managing player-specific information. Happy modding!

Commit message:

refactor: update guide order, refactor and fix indentation (#310)
* fix: fix tab indentation

* refactor: change guide order and move ecs guide over to the rest of guide

* refactor: adjust wording and provide further clarification on ECS, fix links to ecs guide

* refactor: remove useless info from ECS systems guide

* refactor: add warning in env setup and building

content/docs/en/guides/plugin/store-persistant-data.mdx, after:

---
title: "Storing Persistant Data on the Player"
description: "Learn how to save and load persistant data using Components"
authors:
    - name: "ArcticDev"
      url: "https://github.com/ArcticRaven"
    - name: "Neil Revin"
      url: "https://itsneil.dev/"
    - name: "oskarscot"
      url: "https://oskar.scot"
---

Here is how to store persistent data using a custom component on a Player.

## Build your Component Class

Creating a custom component class leverages the Component system made with the ECS architecture in mind. For more information on Components, check out the [ECS Guide](../ecs/hytale-ecs-theory#components).

Start by creating your custom component class. This will be extremely similar to how regular components are created, however we'll setup a custom Codec so the server can translate this data to BSON, or the server's internal json encoder.

<Callout type="info">
Each variable you want to store in your component must have its own Codec field defined in the BuilderCodec.
Since the codec system is lambda based, you provide a setter and getter for each field.

Using complex data types (like Lists, Maps, etc) is possible, but can get tricky.
Refer to the available Codec types in the `Server.jar/com/hypixel/hytale/codec/` package for more information on what types are available.

Note that the 'key' used in the KeyedCodec must start with a Capital Letter, otherwise it may not serialize properly.
</Callout>

```java
public class YourPlayerData implements Component<EntityStore> {

    // define some vars!
    private int someInteger;
    private String someString;
    private Map<String, String> someMap;

    public static final BuilderCodec<YourPlayerData> CODEC =
            BuilderCodec.builder(YourPlayerData.class, YourPlayerData::new)
            .addField(new KeyedCodec<>("SomeInteger", Codec.INTEGER),
                    (data, value) -> data.someInteger = value, // setter
                    data -> data.someInteger) // getter
            .addField(new KeyedCodec<>("SomeString", Codec.STRING),
                    (data, value) -> data.someString = value, // setter
                    data -> data.someString) // getter
            .addField(new KeyedCodec<>("SomeMap",
                            new MapCodec<>(Codec.STRING, HashMap::new, false)),
                    (data, value) -> data.someMap = value, // setter
                    data -> data.someMap) // getter
            .build();



    // Getters and Setters are for the purpose of this example omitted.

    // constructor
    public YourPlayerData() {
        this.someInteger = 0;
        this.someString = "";
        this.someMap = new HashMap<>();
    }

    // copy constructor for cloning
    public YourPlayerData(YourPlayerData clone) {
        this.someInteger = clone.someInteger;
        this.someString = clone.someString;
        this.someMap = clone.someMap;
    }

    @NullableDecl
    @Override
    public Component<EntityStore> clone() {
        return new YourPlayerData(this);
    }
}
```

## Register your Component
Inside your main class's `setup()` method, register your new Component.

```java
public class YourPlugin extends JavaPlugin {

    private ComponentType<EntityStore, YourPlayerData> yourPlayerDataComponent;

    public YourPlugin(@NonNullDecl JavaPluginInit init) {
        super(init);
    }

    @Override
    protected void setup(){
        this.yourPlayerDataComponent = this.getEntityStoreRegistry().registerComponent(
            YourPlayerData.class,
            "YourPlayerDataComponent",
            YourPlayerData.CODEC
        );
    }

    public ComponentType<EntityStore, YourPlayerData> getYourPlayerDataComponent() {
        return this.yourPlayerDataComponent;
    }
}
```

## Using your Data

Your component will be stored within the `Store<EntityStore>` when added to the player. In the provided example,
we'll fetch this data off the player using the `ensureAndGetComponent()` method, which will add the component to
the player if it does not exist with the default values.

```java
public class IncompleteCustomCommand extends AbstractPlayerCommand {

    public IncompleteCustomCommand() {
        super("nope", "don't use this command");
    }

    @Override
    protected void execute(
        @NonNullDecl CommandContext commandContext,
        @NonNullDecl Store<EntityStore> store,
        @NonNullDecl Ref<EntityStore> ref,
        @NonNullDecl PlayerRef playerRef,
        @NonNullDecl World world
    ) {
        YourPlayerData customData = store.ensureAndGetComponent(ref, YourPlugin.instance().getYourPlayerDataComponent());
        // ensureAndGetComponent adds the component to the ref, with the default values defined inside your component.
 		// use your data
    }
}
```

And that's it! Your data will now be saved and loaded automatically with the player.

Using custom components to store persistent data on players is a powerful way to maintain state across sessions. 
By following the steps outlined above, you can easily create, register, and utilize your own data structures within the Hytale ECS framework. 
This approach ensures that your data is seamlessly integrated with the game's existing systems.
For more information about Hytale's Entity Component System visit the [Hytale ECS Theory](https://hytalemodding.dev/en/docs/plugin/plugin/hytale-ecs-theory) guide.
