content/docs/en/publishing/modtale.mdx, before:

---
title: "Modtale"
description: "Complete guide to publishing and managing your Hytale mods on Modtale."
---

# Publishing Your Mod on Modtale

[Modtale](https://modtale.net) is the Hytale Community Repository for discovering mods, asset packs, worlds, and modpacks.

This guide will walk you through the complete process of publishing your mod.

## Prerequisites

Before you start, make sure you have:
- A compiled `.jar` file of your plugin, or `.zip` of your asset pack
- A description of your mod's features

We also recommended:
- High-quality screenshots or images of your mod in action
- A clear logo or icon (recommended size: 512x512px)
- Any dependencies or requirements documented

## Step-by-Step Publishing Process

### 1. Account Setup
Sign in to [Modtale](https://modtale.net) using your preferred method. If you don't have an account, create one first.

### 2. Start Creating
Click on the **"Create"** button in the navigation bar or go directly to the [upload page](https://modtale.net/upload).

### 3. Choose Content Type
Select the appropriate content type for your submission:
- **Server Plugins** - For Hytale server-side plugins and modifications
- **Data Assets** - For custom data packs, loot tables, and other data-driven content
- **Art Assets** - For texture packs, models, and other artistic content
- **Worlds** - For custom Hytale worlds
- **Modpacks** - For curated collections of mods and assets

![Content Type Selection](/assets/guides/modtale_type.png)

### 4. Basic Information
Fill in the essential details:
- **Name**: Choose a clear, descriptive name for your mod
- **Summary**: Write a brief description (1-2 sentences, 250 char max) that explains what your mod does

![Project Title and Description](/assets/guides/modtale_title.png)

### 5. Project Configuration
Now you're on your project's management page. Here you can:

#### Upload Files
Navigate to the **"Files"** tab and upload your `.jar` or `.zip` file:
- Drag and drop your file or use the upload button
- Add version notes describing changes and new features
- Mark release type (Release, Beta, Alpha)

![File Upload Interface](/assets/guides/modtale_upload.png)

#### Customize Your Project
- **Logo**: Upload a high-quality logo (512x512 recommended)
- **Banner**: Upload a banner for your page (1920x640 recommended)
- **Screenshots**: Add multiple screenshots showing your mod in action
- **Description**: Write a comprehensive description using Markdown formatting
- **Links**: Add links to your source code, Discord server, or documentation
- **Tags**: Add relevant tags to help users find your mod
- **License**: Indicate what license your mod uses from a selection of common licenses, or use a custom license

## Best Practices

### Documentation
<Callout type="info">
Always include comprehensive documentation in your mod description. Users should understand what your mod does, how to use it, and any special requirements.
</Callout>

### Version Notes
When uploading new versions:
- You must adhere to SemVer
- Clearly document all changes and new features
- Include bug fixes and known issues
- Mention any breaking changes or migration steps
- List new dependencies or requirement changes

### Visual Appeal
- Use high-quality screenshots that showcase your mod's features in the gallery
- Create an eye-catching logo that represents your mod
- Consider adding a banner image for your project page

### Community Engagement
- Respond to comments and feedback promptly
- Consider creating a Discord server for community support
- Regularly update your mod based on user feedback

## After Publishing

### Monitoring Your Project
- Check the analytics to see download statistics
- Monitor comments and reviews
- Keep track of bug reports and feature requests

### Marketing Your Mod
- Share your mod on relevant Hytale communities
- Create showcase videos or tutorials
- Engage with other modders and creators

<Callout type="warning">
Remember to keep your mod updated for new Hytale versions and maintain compatibility with Hytale's modding framework to maximize your audience reach.
</Callout>

## Getting Help

If you encounter any issues during the publishing process:
- Join their Discord community for support
- Contact the Modtale team directly through their support channels

Commit message:

feat: add Modtale examples repo reference

content/docs/en/publishing/modtale.mdx, after:

---
title: "Modtale"
description: "Complete guide to publishing and managing your Hytale mods on Modtale."
---

# Publishing Your Mod on Modtale

[Modtale](https://modtale.net) is the Hytale Community Repository for discovering mods, asset packs, worlds, and modpacks.

This guide will walk you through the complete process of publishing your mod.

## Prerequisites

Before you start, make sure you have:
- A compiled `.jar` file of your plugin, or `.zip` of your asset pack
- A description of your mod's features

We also recommended:
- High-quality screenshots or images of your mod in action
- A clear logo or icon (recommended size: 512x512px)
- Any dependencies or requirements documented

## Step-by-Step Publishing Process

### 1. Account Setup
Sign in to [Modtale](https://modtale.net) using your preferred method. If you don't have an account, create one first.

### 2. Start Creating
Click on the **"Create"** button in the navigation bar or go directly to the [upload page](https://modtale.net/upload).

### 3. Choose Content Type
Select the appropriate content type for your submission:
- **Server Plugins** - For Hytale server-side plugins and modifications
- **Data Assets** - For custom data packs, loot tables, and other data-driven content
- **Art Assets** - For texture packs, models, and other artistic content
- **Worlds** - For custom Hytale worlds
- **Modpacks** - For curated collections of mods and assets

![Content Type Selection](/assets/guides/modtale_type.png)

### 4. Basic Information
Fill in the essential details:
- **Name**: Choose a clear, descriptive name for your mod
- **Summary**: Write a brief description (1-2 sentences, 250 char max) that explains what your mod does

![Project Title and Description](/assets/guides/modtale_title.png)

### 5. Project Configuration
Now you're on your project's management page. Here you can:

#### Upload Files
Navigate to the **"Files"** tab and upload your `.jar` or `.zip` file:
- Drag and drop your file or use the upload button
- Add version notes describing changes and new features
- Mark release type (Release, Beta, Alpha)

![File Upload Interface](/assets/guides/modtale_upload.png)

#### Customize Your Project
- **Logo**: Upload a high-quality logo (512x512 recommended)
- **Banner**: Upload a banner for your page (1920x640 recommended)
- **Screenshots**: Add multiple screenshots showing your mod in action
- **Description**: Write a comprehensive description using Markdown formatting
- **Links**: Add links to your source code, Discord server, or documentation
- **Tags**: Add relevant tags to help users find your mod
- **License**: Indicate what license your mod uses from a selection of common licenses, or use a custom license

## Best Practices

### Documentation
<Callout type="info">
Always include comprehensive documentation in your mod description. Users should understand what your mod does, how to use it, and any special requirements.
</Callout>

### Version Notes
When uploading new versions:
- You must adhere to SemVer
- Clearly document all changes and new features
- Include bug fixes and known issues
- Mention any breaking changes or migration steps
- List new dependencies or requirement changes

### Visual Appeal
- Use high-quality screenshots that showcase your mod's features in the gallery
- Create an eye-catching logo that represents your mod
- Consider adding a banner image for your project page

### Community Engagement
- Respond to comments and feedback promptly
- Consider creating a Discord server for community support
- Regularly update your mod based on user feedback

## After Publishing

### Automated updates
 - You can configure your project to automatically upload new versions using Github Actions, Gradle, Maven, or Go. See examples [here](https://github.com/Modtale/modtale-example)

### Monitoring Your Project
- Check the analytics to see download statistics
- Monitor comments and reviews
- Keep track of bug reports and feature requests

### Marketing Your Mod
- Share your mod on relevant Hytale communities
- Create showcase videos or tutorials
- Engage with other modders and creators

<Callout type="warning">
Remember to keep your mod updated for new Hytale versions and maintain compatibility with Hytale's modding framework to maximize your audience reach.
</Callout>

## Getting Help

If you encounter any issues during the publishing process:
- Join their Discord community for support
- Contact the Modtale team directly through their support channels
